[doc] Logstash Kubernetes - Stack Monitoring docs (#14696)
elastic/logstash: docsk8s/administering/ls-k8s-stack-monitoring.asciidoc

[[ls-k8s-stack-monitoring]]
=== Stack Monitoring

WARNING: This documentation is still in development and may be changed or removed in a future release.

An important step to making your environment production ready is to configure stack monitoring. Monitoring metrics can be sent to an external resource, such as {ess} or {eck}, so that in the event that any components of your environment become unresponsive, your monitoring data is available.

> To enable {logstash-ref}/monitoring-with-metricbeat.html[Stack Monitoring] for {ls}, you need Metricbeat to collect {ls} metrics, {es} to store the metrics and Kibana to view the result.

Reviewer: Not sure if we have to use the refs...

```suggestion
To enable {logstash-ref}/monitoring-with-metricbeat.html[Stack Monitoring] for {ls}, you need {metricbeat} to collect {ls} metrics, {es} to store the metrics and {kib} to view the result.
```

> Assuming you have installed ECK, the example modifies the link:https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/main/config/recipes/beats/stack_monitoring.yaml[recipe] of Beats stack monitoring. The recipe has initiated a production {es} cluster, a monitoring {es} cluster, {filebeat}, {metricbeat}, a production Kibana and a monitoring Kibana. It monitors {es} and Kibana and send metrics to monitoring cluster.

Author: 👍 sounds good

> Assuming you have installed ECK, the example modifies the link:https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/main/config/recipes/beats/stack_monitoring.yaml[recipe] of Beats stack monitoring. The recipe has initiated a production {es} cluster, a monitoring {es} cluster, {filebeat}, {metricbeat}, a production Kibana and a monitoring Kibana. It monitors {es} and Kibana and send metrics to monitoring cluster.

Author: we can add a note of prerequisites of installing ECK which links to the Quick start set up environment

* <<ls-k8s-monitor-config-metricbeat>>
* <<ls-k8s-monitor-config-ls>>
* <<ls-k8s-monitor-kibana>>

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-config-metricbeat]]
==== Config Metricbeat

To monitor {ls}, add logstash module to the recipe.

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: beat.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: Beat
metadata:
  name: metricbeat
spec:
  type: metricbeat
  version: 8.4.2
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: elasticsearch-monitoring <1>
  config:
    metricbeat:
      autodiscover:
        providers:
          - type: kubernetes
            scope: cluster
            hints.enabled: true
            templates:
              - condition:
                  contains:
                    kubernetes.labels.app: ls <2>
                config:
                  - module: logstash <3>
                    metricsets:
                      - node
                      - node_stats
                    period: 10s
                    hosts: "http://${data.host}:9600"
                    xpack.enabled: true
...
--

<1> {metricbeat} sends metrics to `elasticsearch-monitoring` cluster.

<2> {metricbeat} scans for the pods with label `app: ls` to collect {ls} metrics.

> <3> {metricbeat} logstash module calls metric endpoint from port `9600` for every `10` seconds.

Reviewer: Does it call each logstash every 10 seconds? Or round robin between them, so for 3 logstashes, every 30 seconds?

Author: it calls each logstash every 10 seconds

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-config-ls]]
==== Config {ls}

Add label `app: ls` to `Deployment` for autodiscover.

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: logstash
  labels:
    app: ls
...
--

> Provide the `cluster_uuid` of the production {es} cluster to `monitoring.cluster_uuid` in logstash.yml.

Reviewer: Do we have a link anywhere on how to do that?

Author: I added instructions of getting uuid

[[ls-k8s-stack-monitoring]]

> === Stack Monitoring with ECK

Reviewer: I wonder if this should be a sub-heading, rather than the main heading, with the main heading being `Stack Monitoring`

Author: 👍 would be helpful to distinguish prerequisite

WARNING: This documentation is still in development and may be changed or removed in a future release.

An important step to making your environment production ready is to configure stack monitoring. Monitoring metrics can be sent to an external resource, such as {ess} or {eck}, so that in the event that any components of your environment become unresponsive, your monitoring data is available.

To enable {logstash-ref}/monitoring-with-metricbeat.html[Stack Monitoring] for {ls}, you need {metricbeat} to collect {ls} metrics, {es} to store the metrics and {kib} to view the result.

NOTE: The prerequisite of the example is having ECK installed. Checkout <<qs-set-up>>

> For these examples, we will be modifying the Beats stack monitoring link:https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/main/config/recipes/beats/stack_monitoring.yaml[recipe] from the ECK examples, which initiates a production {es} cluster, a monitoring {es} cluster, {filebeat}, {metricbeat}, a production Kibana and a monitoring Kibana. It monitors {es} and Kibana and send metrics to monitoring cluster.

Reviewer: Maybe we should have our own recipe in our own repo, rather than modifying a pre-existing recipe?

This can be a follow-up task if necessary

Author: The recipe from Beats is pretty nice and they keep it up-to-date. It can be a follow-up for improvement.

    metricbeat:
      autodiscover:
        providers:
          - type: kubernetes
            scope: cluster
            hints.enabled: true
            templates:
              - condition:
                  contains:
                    kubernetes.labels.app: ls <2>
                config:
                  - module: logstash <3>
                    metricsets:
                      - node
                      - node_stats
                    period: 10s
                    hosts: "http://${data.host}:9600"
                    xpack.enabled: true
...
--

<1> {metricbeat} sends metrics to `elasticsearch-monitoring` cluster.

<2> {metricbeat} scans for the pods with label `app: ls` to collect {ls} metrics.

<3> {metricbeat} logstash module calls metric endpoint of each {ls} from port `9600` for every `10` seconds.

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-config-ls]]
==== Config {ls}

Add label `app: ls` to `Deployment` for autodiscover.

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: logstash
  labels:
    app: ls
...
--

Once the above steps of {metricbeat} and {ls} are set, it is ready to deploy. Go to <<ls-k8s-monitor-kibana>> to confirm everything is working.

> **Optional** steps for showing metrics in {kib} in the same {es} cluster: By default {ls} metrics group in Standalone Cluster. To associate data with the same cluster of {es} and {kib}, provide the `cluster_uuid` of the production {es} cluster to `monitoring.cluster_uuid` in logstash.yml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Optional** steps for showing metrics in {kib} in the same {es} cluster: By default {ls} metrics will be shown in a Standalone Cluster. To associate data with the same cluster of {es} and {kib}, provide the `cluster_uuid` of the production {es} cluster to `monitoring.cluster_uuid` in logstash.yml.
```

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
data:
  logstash.yml: |
    api.http.host: "0.0.0.0"
    monitoring.cluster_uuid: PRODUCTION_ES_CLUSTER_UUID
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logstash-config
--

> The get the `cluster_uuid`, go to {kib} > Stack Monitoring page. The URL in the browser shows the uuid in the form of `cluster_uuid:PRODUCTION_ES_CLUSTER_UUID,`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the `cluster_uuid`, go to {kib} > Stack Monitoring page. The URL in the browser shows the uuid in the form of `cluster_uuid:PRODUCTION_ES_CLUSTER_UUID,`.
```

[[ls-k8s-stack-monitoring]]

> === Stack Monitoring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Stack monitoring
```

WARNING: This documentation is still in development and may be changed or removed in a future release.

An important step to making your environment production ready is to configure stack monitoring. Monitoring metrics can be sent to an external resource, such as {ess} or {eck}, so that in the event that any components of your environment become unresponsive, your monitoring data is available.

To enable {logstash-ref}/monitoring-with-metricbeat.html[Stack Monitoring] for {ls}, you need {metricbeat} to collect {ls} metrics, {es} to store the metrics and {kib} to view the result.

==== Stack Monitoring with ECK

NOTE: The prerequisite of the example is having ECK installed. Checkout <<qs-set-up>>

> For these examples, we will be modifying the Beats stack monitoring link:https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/main/config/recipes/beats/stack_monitoring.yaml[recipe] from the ECK examples, which initiates a production {es} cluster, a monitoring {es} cluster, {filebeat}, {metricbeat}, a production Kibana and a monitoring Kibana. It monitors {es} and Kibana and send metrics to monitoring cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For these examples, we will be modifying the Beats stack monitoring link:https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/main/config/recipes/beats/stack_monitoring.yaml[recipe] from the ECK examples.
This example initiates a production {es} cluster, a monitoring {es} cluster, {filebeat}, {metricbeat}, a production Kibana and a monitoring Kibana. It monitors {es} and Kibana and sends metrics to the monitoring cluster.
```

We use {metricbeat-ref}/configuration-autodiscover.html[autodiscover] to config monitoring for multiple {ls}.

* <<ls-k8s-monitor-config-metricbeat>>
* <<ls-k8s-monitor-config-ls>>
* <<ls-k8s-monitor-kibana>>

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-config-metricbeat]]

> ===== Config Metricbeat

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== Configure Metricbeat
```

> To monitor {ls}, add logstash module to the recipe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To monitor {ls}, add the `logstash` module to the recipe.
```

Author: fixed to the `{ls}` module

> To monitor {ls}, add logstash module to the recipe.

Author: I make it `{ls}`. It is upercase

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: beat.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: Beat
metadata:
  name: metricbeat
spec:
  type: metricbeat
  version: 8.4.2
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: elasticsearch-monitoring <1>
  config:
    metricbeat:
      autodiscover:
        providers:
          - type: kubernetes
            scope: cluster
            hints.enabled: true
            templates:
              - condition:
                  contains:
                    kubernetes.labels.app: ls <2>
                config:
                  - module: logstash <3>
                    metricsets:
                      - node
                      - node_stats
                    period: 10s
                    hosts: "http://${data.host}:9600"
                    xpack.enabled: true
...
--

<1> {metricbeat} sends metrics to `elasticsearch-monitoring` cluster.

<2> {metricbeat} scans for the pods with label `app: ls` to collect {ls} metrics.

> <3> {metricbeat} logstash module calls metric endpoint of each {ls} from port `9600` for every `10` seconds.

Reviewer 2: We've experienced some rendering problems when callout descriptions have returns between them.

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-config-ls]]

> ===== Config {ls}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== Configure {ls}
```

Add label `app: ls` to `Deployment` for autodiscover.

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: logstash
  labels:
    app: ls
...
--

> Once the above steps of {metricbeat} and {ls} are set, it is ready to deploy. Go to <<ls-k8s-monitor-kibana>> to confirm everything is working.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have configured {metricbeat} and {ls}, it is ready to deploy. Go to <<ls-k8s-monitor-kibana>> for info on how to confirm that everything is working.
```

Reviewer 2: What do we mean by "it?"  Can we replace it with a more precise word? Would this be a pod?

Reviewer 2: "Once" can be problematic for translation because it's usually associated with counting: "Once, twice, etc."  "After" is a better word because it's more precise.

> **Optional** steps for showing metrics in {kib} in the same {es} cluster: By default {ls} metrics will be shown in a Standalone Cluster. To associate data with the same cluster of {es} and {kib}, provide the `cluster_uuid` of the production {es} cluster to `monitoring.cluster_uuid` in logstash.yml.

Reviewer 2: What do you think about something like this?  If this doesn't achieve what you were going for, let's discuss.

```suggestion
[float]
[[kibana-metrics]]
====== Show {kib} metrics in the same {es} cluster (optional)

By default {ls} metrics will be shown in a standalone cluster. To associate data with the same cluster of {es} and {kib}, provide the `cluster_uuid` of the production {es} cluster to `monitoring.cluster_uuid` in logstash.yml.
```

Reviewer 2: ^^ I can't test this in github review. If you decide to try this, we'll need to check it to be sure it worked as expected.

Author: It works

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
data:
  logstash.yml: |
    api.http.host: "0.0.0.0"
    monitoring.cluster_uuid: PRODUCTION_ES_CLUSTER_UUID
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logstash-config
--

To get the `cluster_uuid`, go to {kib} > Stack Monitoring page. The URL in the browser shows the uuid in the form of `cluster_uuid:PRODUCTION_ES_CLUSTER_UUID,`.

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-kibana]]
===== View monitoring data in {kib}

> When everything is set, {kib} > Stack Monitoring page will show the Logstash data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When everything is set, the {kib} > Stack Monitoring page will show the Logstash data.
```

> To access {kib} by `https://localhost:5601`,
> 
> Set the port fowarding:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access {kib} by `https://localhost:5601`, set the port forwarding:
```

===== Configure Metricbeat

To monitor {ls}, add the `Logstash` module to the recipe.

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: beat.k8s.elastic.co/v1beta1
kind: Beat
metadata:
  name: metricbeat
spec:
  type: metricbeat
  version: 8.4.2
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: elasticsearch-monitoring <1>
  config:
    metricbeat:
      autodiscover:
        providers:
          - type: kubernetes
            scope: cluster
            hints.enabled: true
            templates:
              - condition:
                  contains:
                    kubernetes.labels.app: ls <2>
                config:
                  - module: logstash <3>
                    metricsets:
                      - node
                      - node_stats
                    period: 10s
                    hosts: "http://${data.host}:9600"
                    xpack.enabled: true
...
--

<1> {metricbeat} sends metrics to `elasticsearch-monitoring` cluster.
<2> {metricbeat} scans for the pods with label `app: ls` to collect {ls} metrics.
<3> {metricbeat} logstash module calls metric endpoint of each {ls} from port `9600` for every `10` seconds.

[float]
[[ls-k8s-monitor-config-ls]]
===== Configure {ls}

> Add label `app: ls` to `Deployment` for autodiscover.

Reviewer: Do we need to mention `StatefulSet` here too?

Author: I think it is optional
